Cross updating with Microservices eBook v2.1.02 - Chapter 9 (#8504)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/microservices-architecture/secure-net-microservices-web-applications/index.md

---
title: Securing .NET Microservices and Web Applications

> description: Securing .NET Microservices and Web Applications | Get to know the authentication options in ASP.NET Core web applications.

Reviewer: Secure

Author: Fixed with global search & replace above

ASP.NET Core Identity also supports [two-factor authentication](/aspnet/core/security/authentication/2fa).

For authentication scenarios that make use of a local user data store and that persist identity between requests using cookies (as is typical for MVC web applications), ASP.NET Core Identity is a recommended solution.

### Authenticate with external providers

ASP.NET Core also supports using [external authentication providers](/aspnet/core/security/authentication/social/) to let users sign in via [OAuth 2.0](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/an-introduction-to-oauth-2) flows. This means that users can sign in using existing authentication processes from providers like Microsoft, Google, Facebook, or Twitter and associate those identities with an ASP.NET Core identity in your application.

To use external authentication, you include the appropriate authentication middleware in your application’s HTTP request processing pipeline. This middleware is responsible for handling requests to return URI routes from the authentication provider, capturing identity information, and making it available via the SignInManager.GetExternalLoginInfo method.

> Popular external authentication providers and their associated NuGet packages are shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Popular external authentication providers and their associated NuGet packages are shown in the following table:
```

You can also create your own external authentication middleware to solve some special need.

### Authenticate with bearer tokens

Authenticating with ASP.NET Core Identity (or Identity plus external authentication providers) works well for many web application scenarios in which storing user information in a cookie is appropriate. In other scenarios, though, cookies are not a natural means of persisting and transmitting data.

For example, in an ASP.NET Core Web API that exposes RESTful endpoints that might be accessed by Single Page Applications (SPAs), by native clients, or even by other Web APIs, you typically want to use bearer token authentication instead. These types of applications do not work with cookies, but can easily retrieve a bearer token and include it in the authorization header of subsequent requests. To enable token authentication, ASP.NET Core supports several options for using [OAuth 2.0](https://oauth.net/2/) and [OpenID Connect](https://openid.net/connect/).

> #### Authenticate with an OpenID Connect or OAuth 2.0 Identity provider

Reviewer 2: H3 or 4?

Author: H3!, fixed.

2. You configure IdentityServer4 in Startup.ConfigureServices by making a call to services.AddIdentityServer.

3. You configure identity server by setting the following data:

   - The [credentials](https://identityserver4.readthedocs.io/en/release/topics/crypto.html) to use for signing.

   - The [Identity and API resources](https://identityserver4.readthedocs.io/en/release/topics/resources.html) that users might request access to:

      - API resources represent protected data or functionality that a user can access with an access token. An example of an API resource would be a web API (or set of APIs) that requires authorization.

      - Identity resources represent information (claims) that are given to a client to identify a user. The claims might include the user name, email address, and so on.

   - The [clients](https://identityserver4.readthedocs.io/en/release/topics/clients.html) that will be connecting in order to request tokens.

   - The storage mechanism for user information, such as [ASP.NET Core Identity](https://identityserver4.readthedocs.io/en/release/quickstarts/6_aspnet_identity.html) or an alternative.

> When you specify clients and resources for IdentityServer4 to use, you can pass an IEnumerable\<T\> collection of the appropriate type to methods that take in-memory client or resource stores. Or for more complex scenarios, you can provide client or resource provider types via Dependency Injection.

Reviewer: xref for `IEnumerable<T>`

Author: Done.

> When you specify clients and resources for IdentityServer4 to use, you can pass an <xref:system.collections.generic.ienumerable-1> collection of the appropriate type to methods that take in-memory client or resource stores. Or for more complex scenarios, you can provide client or resource provider types via Dependency Injection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you specify clients and resources for IdentityServer4 to use, you can pass an <xref:System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable%601> collection of the appropriate type to methods that take in-memory client or resource stores. Or for more complex scenarios, you can provide client or resource provider types via Dependency Injection.
```

    .AddAspNetIdentity<ApplicationUser>();
```

### Consume security tokens

Authenticating against an OpenID Connect endpoint or issuing your own security tokens covers some scenarios. But what about a service that simply needs to limit access to those users who have valid security tokens that were provided by a different service?

> For that scenario, authentication middleware that handles JWT tokens is available in the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer` package. JWT stands for "[JSON Web Token](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519)" and is a common security token format (defined by RFC 7519) for communicating security claims. A simplified example of how to use middleware to consume such tokens might look like this code fragment, taken from the Ordering.Api microservice of eShopOnContainers.

Reviewer: The package name should be bold, not code fenced.

Author: Fixed

With this middleware in place, JWT tokens are automatically extracted from authorization headers. They are then deserialized, validated (using the values in the `Audience` and `Authority` parameters), and stored as user information to be referenced later by MVC actions or authorization filters.

The JWT bearer authentication middleware can also support more advanced scenarios, such as using a local certificate to validate a token if the authority is not available. For this scenario, you can specify a `TokenValidationParameters` object in the `JwtBearerOptions` object.

## Additional resources

- **Sharing cookies between applications** \
  [*https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/data-protection/compatibility/cookie-sharing\#sharing-authentication-cookies-between-applications*](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/data-protection/compatibility/cookie-sharing#sharing-authentication-cookies-between-applications)

- **Introduction to Identity** \

>   [*https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/authentication/identity*](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/security/authentication/identity)

Reviewer 2: link targets to aspnet content needs to be without the domain to work offline. 

e.g. /aspnet/core/security/authentication/identity

Author: Stripped https://docs.microsoft.com from all links
